Welcome to Synthesis, a traceable workspace for systematic reviews and meta-analyses.
1.2
This overview follows a review from its protocol through screening, synthesis, and reporting.
1.3
What you see is the seeded demonstration project, using the same workflows your team will use.
2.1
Start by creating a project and assigning team roles.
2.2
In Protocol, record the review question, narrative and structured PICO, eligibility criteria, outcomes, search plan, exclusion reasons, and analysis plan.
2.3
Publish a version before screening.
2.4
Later edits require an amendment note, so the methods history remains visible.
3.1
Add each database as a source, then upload RIS, BibTeX, CSV, or NBIB exports.
3.2
Synthesis previews every record and preserves parse errors before you commit a batch.
3.3
The project always knows where each citation came from.
4.1
Run duplicate detection before screening.
4.2
Exact DOI and PMID matches sit alongside title-based suggestions for human review.
4.3
Merge a pair, reject it, or undo a merge later; the original provenance is retained.
5.1
Assign title-and-abstract and full-text work to one or more reviewers.
5.2
The queue is keyboard first: I includes, E excludes, M marks maybe, N opens a note, and J skips.
5.3
When blinding is enabled, reviewers cannot see one another's decisions.
5.4
Disagreements become conflicts for an adjudicator, while agreed decisions advance automatically.
6.1
The full-text workspace tracks retrieval attempts, attached PDFs, and screening status together.
6.2
Included reports advance to studies.
6.3
A full-text exclusion must use a configured reason, keeping PRISMA counts and exclusion tables consistent.
7.1
Build a typed, versioned extraction template, publish it, and assign extractors.
7.2
The living table resolves values in a clear order: adjudicated first, then consensus, then a single completed value.
7.3
Evidence anchors reopen the exact supporting page and quote, and CSV export is always close at hand.
8.1
For risk of bias, clone a standard instrument or build your own.
8.2
Synthesis includes RoB 2, ROBINS-I, QUADAS-2, Newcastle-Ottawa, JBI, and AMSTAR 2.
8.3
Reviewers assess domains independently; the traffic-light summary shows agreement, disagreements, and adjudicated judgments.
9.1
Map extraction fields to an outcome once, and pooled results refresh as finalized evidence changes.
9.2
Fixed and random effects, forest plots, prediction intervals, funnel plots, and small-study diagnostics are generated from deterministic statistical code, with incomplete or excluded studies called out.
10.1
On the GRADE tab, Synthesis drafts five certainty domains from the pooled evidence and risk-of-bias results.
10.2
Every judgment and rationale stays human-editable.
10.3
Mark an assessment reviewed only when the evidence is current; source changes flag it as stale.
11.1
The Summary of Findings brings together study counts, participants, relative effects, anticipated absolute effects, and certainty.
11.2
Download the table as CSV when it is ready for your report.
12.1
PRISMA counts are computed live from the same decisions that drive the workflow.
12.2
Save a frozen snapshot for a submission, and download the publication-ready flow diagram as SVG or PNG.
13.1
Finally, the audit trail records who changed what, when, and why.
13.2
Role-aware filtering preserves reviewer blinding.
13.3
Together with capability-gated exports, it gives the review a defensible chain from source record to final conclusion.
14.1
That is Synthesis: one connected workspace for planning, screening, extraction, risk assessment, synthesis, and reporting.
14.2
Open the user guide for task-by-task instructions, role guidance, shortcuts, and troubleshooting.